README

This repository is designed to quickly obtain coverage levels of reads mapped to a reference 
sequence from a supplied vcf (Variant Call Format) file. If a region file is also provided, then the 
program will calculate mean and median coverage levels within the region(s) specified. If a region 
file is not specified, then the program will output mean and median coverage levels genome wide. 
Includes the ability to filter out high coverage regions, which should be especially helpful when 
determining average genome-wide coverage levels. The region file should be tab-delimited and 
formatted as follows:

Gene	Scaffold	Start	Stop

This region file is automatically generated and properly formated by the samPositions.py module 
from a sam file, but can also be generated manually. There should be no header in the regions file. 
Gene names are not required and can be identical; however, a tab must remain in order for the file 
to be parsed correctly. 

coverage.py will first attempt to open an index of the vcf file. If one does not exist in the 
current working directory, then the program will create one. Otherwise, the program will be able 
to load the stored index and quickly access coverage information stored in a vcf file. Output is to 
the standard out unless otherwise specified and will be tab-delimited.

USAGE

	python coverage.py -i <vcfFile> <options> > coverage.txt

OPTIONS
	-i	<vcf file>	Input File [REQUIRED]. If no input file is given, the program will output 
				the help menu. File should be in VCF format for a single individual per 
				file.
	
	-r	<regions file>	Regions file. Tab-delimited file containing the region name, the scaffold 
				name, the start, and stop position for each region. One region per line. 
				samPositions.py can be used to generate this file or it can be manually 
				generated.
	
	-d	<int>		Max Depth. Sites with coverage greater than d will be ignored.
	

Questions and comments should be addressed to Joel Sharbrough at jsharbro[at]gmail.com.

Copyright 2017 Joel Sharbrough under the MIT license. This program is provided as is and may be shared, edited, 
and used freely for non-commercial purposes ONLY.

All rights reserved.

